So let me now just go
through quite concretely,
how you go about building a Maxent model.
And this is the kind of stuff that you'll
be doing in the assignment for this week.
So the first step is
that we define features.
So our features are Boolean functions,
binary indicator functions
over the data points.
And what we're thinking about is
what are things that will pick out
sets of data point, which say something
distinctive about our classification task.
If it's something like
text classification or
sentiment, we're definitely going to want
to include individual words as features.
But sometimes those aren't the best or
the only good features.
For example, there are an infinite
space of numbers like 3.42 or 7.86,
and it's going to be hard
to usefully use these
numbers just as words, because most likely
the numbers that turn up at test time,
weren't in your training data.
So you can get a lot of value from
defining more general features.
Which might be just simply,
word contains a digit.
Or it might be something more specific
like, is floating point number.
But there are are also many other
cases of useful kinds of features.
So in many languages including English
the end of a word gives you
information about its class.
So if you have words like helping, making,
drying that you can tell that
these words are participial forms of
verbs by looking at that ing ending.
Of course, this isn't always true.
You'll get a word like sting, but
nevertheless it's a good indicator and
so a feature like this is something that
you can be expecting to get a positive
weight in a model, if you're wanting to
have a model that's classifying words for
something like part of speech.
So what we will do in class that's
commonly done in practice Is that for
each phi feature that picks out a data
context that we will just represented as
a string, so the string could just
be the word computer or whatever.
But since, we're also going to have
other features like word contains number
commonly what we want to do is
have some informal namespace.
So this might be,
the word equals computer.
And this one might be,
the num equals decimal.
Or the feature here might
be the end equals ing.
So we got this informal
name space of features.
And the reason why we want
to do that is we want to
represent each feature as an unique
string, so we can use that
in like a hash map where we can then
look up the weight for each feature.
Now of course you don't have to
encode the features as strings.
You could encode them as some
more general, structured object.
But in practice a lot of the time strings
I use because they're just a fairly
flexible and
formal way to encode features.
Okay, and then remember that this
part gives us our five feature.
And then from the five feature we're
going to construct the f features,
where the f features are going to be
a five feature and a particular class.
So for a particular five feature, we're
then going to build a set of f features,
one for each choice of class cj.
And then it's the particular
f features like f1,
f2, f3 that are then
going to be given weights
like 0.3 minus 0.7, 1.2 or whatever.
We concentrate on defining
the phi features in terms of what are
useful features for the problem domain.
But you should remember that in the
presentation that follows and in the code,
that the code is working
in terms of indices i
of the individual f features, where
each phi feature is then being turned
into a set of f features,
one for each class.
How do you go about
building a Maxent Model?
Well normally to start off with,
you define some features that you are,
just basically,
sure are going to be useful.
So that might be things like
words in the document or
the would before the word you want
to classify or something like that.
But typically, we go through an iterative
development process where we initially
build one model with some features.
We test it on some developmental
data not our final test data.
And we see how it does and
it gets some performance level,
like it might be 57%, and
we'd like to do a bit better.
And so what we're then going to do is
come up with a Refined second model and
then repeat over and
we'll commonly do this a number of times
until we've tried to come up with
the best model that we think we can.
And so the question then is what
do we do for this next model?
And.
In general,
you can look at the features and
see which ones are useful as
good features and bed features.
Often, the easiest way to make
progress in practice is to try and
define features that mark bad situations.
So if you look through your
classified development data,
you'll see some piece of data and
it's classified something as a drug.
And it just shouldn't have been a drug.
And so then maybe you can look
at the actual observed data and
see something about it.
So maybe there's a smiley face here or
something like that.
And you can say, well,
it just isn't likely That a piece of text
which has a smiley face near it is going
to be talking about a drug, And so
you can define a feature for
this combination.
And so this kind of style of feature
is where you target errors And
find some way to explain to the model
why that's a bad configuration
is often one of the most
effective ways to add features.
Then for
any particular set of features and
their weights what we're going to want
to be able to do Is calculate the data
conditional likelihood the probability
of a class, given the data item.
Well we already know how to do that,
that's what we did in the preceding
slides with the worked examples.
But then second We're also going to
want to work out the derivative
of the conditional likelihood with
respect to each feature weight.
So we kind of want a partial
derivative of our overall probability
according to a particular
feature weight lambda i.
This is what we're going to work it
through the method in the next session.
But crucially to do that, what we're
going to end up doing is using those two
feature expectations
that I defined earlier.
And so using those two things,
we'll then be able to work out
these optimum feature weights.
Okay so I hope that's given you a good
sense of what features in discriminate
models and at least some idea of
how to go about defining them or
classify in a practical Context, though
that question of what kinds of features
are good is something we'll come back to
later when looking at particular problems.
After we've worked through more
of the math and properties and
maximum entropy models.